We learn a lot about classes and aero functions.
Let's now turn our heads towards new operators will be able to use in the future of javascript and we
already can use today in our Riak project to spread into the rest operators.
Actually it's only one operator free dots.
Yes this may look strange but the operator is just free dots.
Now if we call it spread or rest depends on where we use it the spread operator is used to split up
every elements or object properties.
So we spread up an array or object.
For example if we have an old array and we want to add all the elements from that old array to a new
array and additionally add a 1 in a two element this first index would be what he was three dots in
front of all the array will simply pull out all the elements and added to the new array which we created
with square brackets.
And of course then we can add more elements to it.
So we just use to normalize index with square brackets to create an array the same for your object.
We create a new object with call braces with the new prop but then we also have dot dot dot.
Old object to pull out all the properties of the old object and their values and add them as key value
pairs too didn't you object as a side note if the old object.
Also ahead a new property.
It would be overridden by a new prop 5 here.
So our own property takes precedence dishonesty spread operator.
Now the rest operator is the same operator but used differently here it's used to merge a list of function
arguments into an array.
And this shows us where we use it.
We use it in a function argument list.
Here is an example sort.
Our X receives an unlimited amount of arguments.
So one argument to free or whatever with dot dot dot we only write one argument or X but we may actually
receive more than one and they will all be merged together into an array.
So then we can apply Array methods to our argument list or do whatever we want to do with our conveniently
stored arguments.
Let's have a look at both such as NJ Esben then.
So let's start with the spread operator or create an array of numbers.
So once you free add as many as you want.
Now I want to create a new array new numbers and as you saw spread is now simply used by adding free
dots.
Then the old array numbers and then potentially you don't have to do that.
New numbers like 4 and again that is optional.
With that final console log.
New numbers here.
And I had run we get one two three four the older array with all its elements and the new element.
And actually we don't add the old element.
If we were to do that without the dots it would be included as one element inside the new element.
It really pulled out the old elements as you can clearly see.
So that's the spread operator and you will see me use this for out this course a couple of times on
both arrays and objects to for example conveniently copy arrays or add properties to an object whilst
safely copying that old object.
Again I will obviously also always mention why I'm using that operator when a do in the course.
Just be aware that it exists.
Let's now see the same for objects all create a personal object here where I have a name.
Let's say Max and now I will have a new person object which is a javascript object and new one whereas
First of all use to spread operator on person to copy all the property value pairs of the old object
and potentially and that's all optional.
Add a new property.
And now if I console log new person you may ignore this error which is owned by J has been decent X
will be supported in our course project.
We do this you see object as Brinton's year with named Max at age 28.
So it's taking the old person and distributing it into the new person that's the spread operator.
Now the rest operator which is used less often though is used in a function and you could of course
also use 6 arrow function.
So there we could have a filter function whatever you want to name it and we get a couple of arcs and
you don't have to use X year olds named as a or whatever you want but you have to use the free dots
in front of it.
So then there you can simply return.
We could use the inline syntax here to write it all in one line without you return key word here I'll
use return.
You could return our X and then let's say we call the built in filter method which is available on arrays
and keep in mind the dots here are used as a rest operator and that merge the arguments into an array.
So we can use aere methods like filter filter will execute a function on every element in the past in
array.
So here we would get our element and then we could use the inline arrow function to simply say return
true or false.
Which filter expects if the element is equal to 1.
Now that might be a lot of CYNICUS you don't know.
Free equals signs checks for type and value equality so that Al also has to be a number.
And does it just the arrow function that we pass to the built in filter method.
So this has nothing to do with rest or spread.
We have that we could call filter and let's it a log to see something Konsole law filter.
So our focus or function here on let's say 1 2 free and actually we should only log 1 year as an array
though because we filter desiré which is created with the rest operator with the free dots year.
So that's Reston spread again spread is to use such off the free dots you will see more often in this
course.